Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A programming language is a type of written language that tells computers what to do.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Java Development Kit. Contains JRE, JVM, Library, and Development Tools.

What is IDE?
Integrated Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Inteli J, Eclipse, XCode, NetBeans, etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Editing the program, Compiling the source code, Executing the byte code

what is class?
A Class is a "blueprint" for creating objects.

What is object?
An object is an instance of class by which we can access the data members and member functions of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?
The main method is the entry point of a Java application.

Why main is static?
The main method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object is the super class of all other classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path and Classpath are the two most common environment variables you will deal with while configuring a java environment.
A path variable is used to set the path for all Java software tools like javac.exe, java.exe, javadoc.exe,
and so on, while classpath variable is used to set the path for java classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override. An interface only allows
you to define functionality, not implement it. And whereas a class can extend only one abstract class, it can take
advantage of multiple interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? if not how do you use it?
You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete classes *interface is not even
considered as a class.* But we can implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be
abstract.

what is Access Specifier?
An access specifier is a defining code element that can determine which elements of a program are allowed to access a
specific variable or other piece of data.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object-Oriented Programming.
OOP concepts include abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism.
Abstraction: Abstraction is a process where you show only “relevant” data and “hide” unnecessary details of an object
from the user.
Encapsulation: Encapsulation simply means binding object state(fields) and behavior(methods) together. If you are
creating class, you are doing encapsulation.
Inheritance: The process by which one class acquires the properties and functionalities of another class is called
inheritance.
Polymorphism: Polymorphism is a object oriented programming feature that allows us to perform a single action in
different ways.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Package in Java is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces.
The java. lang package is always imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API: Application Programming Interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
To simplify the language, multiple inheritance is not supported in java.
Java renders compile-time error if you inherit 2 classes.
So whether you have same method or different, there will be compile time error.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
In Java, two or more methods may have the same name if they differ in parameters
(different number of parameters, different types of parameters, or both).
Method overloading happens at compile-time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception handling is defined as an abnormal condition that may happen at runtime and disturb the normal flow of
the program. The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Put the code you want to run in the try block, and
any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks. This method will catch any type of
Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism for handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
In the Java programming language, the keyword static means that the particular member belongs to a type itself,
rather than to an instance of that type.
The static keyword in Java is mainly used for memory management.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them
non-changeable (impossible to inherit or override). The final keyword is useful when you want a variable
to always store the same value.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final: Final is a keyword and is used as access modifier in Java.
Finally: Finally is a block in Java used for Exception Handling.
Finalize: Finalize is a method in Java used for Garbage Collection.

What is a constructor?
A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
If we don't have a constructor declared the default constructor called during the object creation.

What is "this" keyword in java?
"this" keyword in Java is a reference variable that refers to the current object of a method or a constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects.
Super variable refers immediate parent class instance.
Super variable can invoke immediate parent class method.
Super() acts as immediate parent class constructor and should be the first line in child class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Yes.

What version of java are you using?
8

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java. It is a software bundle which provides Java
class libraries with necessary components to run Java code. JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment
for executing it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally. JVM is where it's responsible for converting
the Bytecode into machine specific code and makes java program write-once-run-anywhere.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time refers to the time duration in which the programming code is converted to the machine code
and usually occurs before runtime.
Runtime is a system used primarily in software development to describe the period of time during which a program
is running.

What is heap?
A heap memory is dynamic and flexible uses in Java.

How java manage it's memory?
Java manage it's memory by using heap memory, stock memory and the Garbage Collector had the duty of handling memory
allocation so that the developer doesn't have to.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
The String is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable.

What is Singleton class?
The Singleton class is used protect our class and our object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse
process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
Transient variable in Java is used to indicate that a field should not be part of the serialization process.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
While loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement(s), whereas do while loop will execute the
statement(s) at least once, then the condition is checked.

What is Enum?
The Enum in Java is a data type which contains a fixed set of constants.

What is Iterator?
An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer takes more memory than Int.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Because Once String object is created its data or state can't be changed but a new String object is created.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
In Java, constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage collector uses a single
thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for
the garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
JIT stands for Java-In-Time Compiler.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
The JVM runtime environment uses a large memory pool called the heap for object allocation. The JVM automatically
invokes garbage collections in order to clean up the heap of unreferenced or dead objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
The major difference between Stack memory and heap memory is that the stack is used to store the order of method
execution and local variables while the heap memory stores the objects and it uses dynamic memory allocation and
de-allocation.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language.
Reflection is commonly used by programs which require the ability to examine or modify the runtime behavior of
applications running in the Java virtual machine.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum
utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronized method is used to lock an object for any shared resource.

What is Framework?
A framework is a structure that you can build software on.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
JUnit, Mockito, Selenium, TestNG, Spock Framework, Cucumber, FitNesse, Arquillian, DBUnit, Rest Assured.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an
upgraded option for running tests. JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can run parallel tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Has none.

what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding happens at compile-time while dynamic binding happens at runtime.







